# GRPC - Playground Repo

This repo holds notes and examples from the official grpc repository for personal reference


### Protobuf Headers

`option java_multiple_files = true;`

This is a Java-specific option. By default, all the generated Java classes from the .proto file would be nested inside a single outer class. This option tells the Protocol Buffers compiler (protoc) to generate each message in its own .java file. This can be useful for organization and to avoid overly large single Java files.

`option java_package = "io.grpc.examples.routeguide";`

Again, this is a Java-specific option. It specifies the package of the generated Java source files. The package acts as a namespace and is essential for avoiding naming collisions in Java projects. In this case, the generated Java files will belong to the io.grpc.examples.routeguide package.

`option java_outer_classname = "RouteGuideProto";`

When the java_multiple_files option is false, the Java code generated by protoc from the .proto file will be nested inside a single outer class. This option defines the name of that outer class. Even when java_multiple_files is true, this class is still generated, but it only contains the file's descriptor. Here, the outer class's name will be RouteGuideProto.

`option objc_class_prefix = "RTG";`

This option is specific to Objective-C (often used for iOS development). When compiling .proto files for Objective-C, the compiler generates classes for each message. To avoid naming collisions with other Objective-C classes (which all share a global namespace), it's common practice to prefix the generated classes. Here, all generated Objective-C classes will be prefixed with RTG.

### grpc Compiler 

#### Python Example

```bash 
python -m grpc_tools.protoc -I../../protos --python_out=. --pyi_out=. --grpc_python_out=. ../../protos/route_guide.proto
```